---
layout: post
title: "VSA Day 1, Flight 1"
author: Ashley Theiss
date: 2016-05-29 13:34:00
tags: 
- vsa
- gliding
img:
summary:
comments: true
---

### Goals:
+ Pitch and bank attitude practice; feel for controls and gentle turns only.
+ Turn in 3 parts, roll into turn, hold bank at 30ยบ roll, roll out, back to center.

<!--more-->

### Conditions at CYHE:
+ 12ยบC, partly cloudy, light rainshowers rolling out, cloud ceiling at about 3500 ft.

### Flight record:
+ Flying: C-GVSA (Grob 103)
+ Tow: C-FAUJ (Cessna L-19) by Ray M
+ Instructor pilot: Daniel W
+ Takeoff time: 13:34
+ Landing time: 13:50
+ Logged time for this flight: **0:26**
+ Total glider flight time: **0:26**

### Remarks:
+ Learned practices for removing aircraft from hangar, moving aircraft onto field, who has control / steering via wingtip, etc.
+ Practiced preparation for flight and cockpit checks.
+ Hope bowl tow release at 3100 ft, practiced:
+ Coordinated gentle turns;
+ LOOKOUT technique;
+ Control of speed.
+ Challenging to initially discover manual input sensations and force/speed required on stick and pedals. Fairly smooth and intuitive with basic turns, just a matter of getting in more flight time.
+ Handled circuit approach towards waterfall and lining up with HWY-1 eastbound on parallel approach to CYHE, second from last left turn; Daniel took over final left turn and landing.
+ Good first serious flight! Weather at about 2500 ft was bumpy and challenging during some left/right turn practice, challenging turbulence at about 400 ft over HWY-1 during usual high to low points in circuit and approach.
+ Daniel W is an excellent instructor, very clear communication between us, before, during and after the flight.